## Setup instructions for Raspicast (a Raspberry Pi chromecast alternative)

You will need and Android device connected to the same network as your Pi. And, you also need a running SSH server on it.

### 1.) Update and upgrade package sources
This is a very important step because it downloads and installs the latest updates for your Pi's packages.
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

### 2.) Install required packages for Raspicast
Raspicast requires a couple packages. Git is the tool we will be using to download the source code, and Make is what we will be using to build it.
```
sudo apt-get install git make -y
```

### 3.) Install OMXPlayer
OMXPlayer might be preinstalled in your install of Raspbian, but we need to check just in case. This is what allows audio to be played on Raspicast.
```
sudo apt-get install omxplayer -y
```

### 4.) Install OMXIV
This can be called OpenMax Image Viewer. It is a required part of Raspicast because it is a GPU accelerated image viewer explicitly designed for the Raspberry Pi’s GPU, meaning we can display any images as fast as possible and reduce the load on the Raspberry Pi’s CPU.
```
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/chunky-milk/raspicast.git
```

### 5.) Install libjpeg8-dev and libpng12-dev
We need to install two more packages that allow the OpenMax image viewer to be compiled.
```
sudo apt-get install libjpeg8-dev libpng12-dev
```

### 6.) Compile code
Move to the OpenMax directory
```
cd ~/raspicast
```
Initialize build/make process (if this fails, try step 1 again)
```
make ilclient
make
```
Install the code
```
sudo make install
```

### 7.) Install Raspicast on your Android device
First we need to grab the Raspberry Pi's IP address (note this is a LOCAL ip adress, not a PUBLIC ip address.)
Type
```
hostname -I
```
into the terminal. Take note of the output.
Now, we need to install the Raspicast application on your Android device. Click on the Google Play link
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=at.huber.raspicast&hl=en
Then, you'll be greeted with a popup asking for an IP address, username and password. Enter these details. The IP is the output generated by the last Raspberry Pi command.
